+++
categories = ["article"]
date = 2023-05-16T17:00:00Z
description = "This is meta description"
image = "/uploads/firsthouse.jpg"
tags = ["article"]
title = "5/16/23 - Use These Investment Accounts to Buy Your First Home in Canada"
type = "post"

+++
<span style="color:black"><span style="font-family:Arial; font-size:1.2em;">Those who already do their own investing are probably aware of how a Tax-Free Savings Account (TFSA) works. But what about the First Home Savings Account (FHSA) or a Registered Retirements Savings Plan (RRSP)? If your #1 financial goal is owning a home, you’ve come to the right place. In this article, I will explain how you can use the FHSA and RRSP accounts to generate more short-term cash than would otherwise be possible with different investment accounts. That way, you will have a head start over the people who dream of owning a home but aren’t taking the most efficient path to get there. After all, there is a limited supply of housing, and the demand is growing daily. To own a home, it’s crucial that you not only work hard but also work SMART.</span></span>

<span style="color:black"><span style="font-family:Arial; font-size:1.2em;">If you’re saving for your first house, the best investment account you can use is the First Home Savings Account (FHSA). This is because it provides the same benefits as the TFSA and RRSP accounts combined. The first benefit of the FHSA is like that of an RRSP – contributing money to the account is tax-deductible. The second benefit of the FHSA is like that of a TFSA – your savings grow tax-free. The main difference between the FHSA and TFSA is that withdrawals from an FHSA are tax-free only if used to purchase your first home. When it comes to a TFSA, withdrawals are tax-free regardless of what the proceeds are being used for. For those with home ownership as their biggest financial goal, the FHSA account provides the most tax benefits overall; you can grow your investments tax-free, and contributing money to the account will either reduce the tax you pay or increase your tax return. Compared to a TFSA contribution, contributing to an FHSA puts more money in your pocket short-term. More money in your pocket short-term means that you have a bigger down payment for your first home.</span></span>

<span style="color:black"><span style="font-family:Arial; font-size:1.2em;">The second best investment account for those with home ownership as their main financial goal is the Registered Retirement Savings Plan (RRSP). Although withdrawals from an RRSP aren’t tax-free like an FHSA or TFSA, the Home Buyers’ Plan (HBP) is available to first-time home buyers with an RRSP. In the Government of Canada’s words, “The Home Buyers' Plan (HBP) is a program that allows you to withdraw funds from your Registered Retirement Savings Plans (RRSPs) to buy or build a qualifying home for yourself or for a related person with a disability. The HBP allows you to pay back the withdrawn funds within a 15-year period.”</span></span>

<span style="color:black"><span style="font-family:Arial; font-size:1.2em;">Usually, you have to pay tax when you make a withdrawal from your RRSP. This makes sense because you get a tax deduction for contributing to your RRSP in the first place. As mentioned earlier, a tax deduction means that you will either pay less in tax or receive a greater tax return. So a tax deduction means more money in your pocket short-term, and a bigger down payment for your first house. Assuming that you qualify for the HBP, you can withdraw up to $35,000 tax-free from your RRSP to buy your first home. The only stipulation is that it needs to be paid back (to your RRSP) within 15 years. While I believe RRSPs are the second best investment account for someone whose main financial goal is home ownership, that is only true up to the $35,000 HBP limit. If your RRSP account already has $35,000 or more, and your main goal is to own a home, then it would be better to contribute to your FHSA or TFSA.</span></span>
